Let me ask you this.
Do you see yourself as a leader?
Think back to a time
when you guided or supported others.
Maybe you led a project.
Helped a friend make a decision
or simply stepped up when it mattered.
What did that feel like?
Did others recognize your leadership
or did your effort go unnoticed?
Go ahead. Take a second.
Think about it.
You can pause the video if you want to.
So, did a moment pop into your head
right away?
Or are you sitting there thinking,
nope, not me?
It might be difficult to think
of a specific leadership experience
simply
because leadership is often misunderstood.
Many of us hold misconceptions
about what it truly means to be a leader.
The Cambridge Dictionary defines
a leader as a person
in control of a group, country,
or situation.
For many people, leadership
is tied to titles, hierarchy, and power.
Think of words like boss
authority and giving orders.
But is that really all leadership is?
When we think of leaders.
We often picture CEOs, basketball coaches,
school principals,
or even the Prime Minister of Canada.
But leadership exists
beyond titles and authority.
It's about impact.
Some of the common
myths about leadership might be holding
you back from recognizing this.
Let's debunk them together.
Myth number one
leaders must be extroverts.
It's easy to picture a leader
as someone bold, outspoken,
and always in the spotlight.
But in reality, effective leaders come in
all personality types.
Leadership isn't
about being the loudest voice in the room.
It's about knowing your strengths
and using them.
Introverts, for example, often
excel at deep thinking,
listening, and building strong
one on one relationships.
The best leaders adapt
to their own unique strengths.
Whether they're introverted
or extroverted.
Myth number two.
Leadership means making all the decisions.
A common misconception is
that leaders have to call all the shots.
But great leadership isn't about control.
It's about trust.
The best leaders empower
others, encourage collaboration,
and guide their teams
through coaching and support.
Instead of having all the answers,
they create an environment
where everyone contributes and grows.
Myth number three only managers can lead.
Leadership isn't defined by a job title.
It exists at all levels.
Whether you're a manager, an intern,
or anywhere in between.
True leaders step up, take initiative,
and inspire change
no matter their position.
You don't need a title to make an impact.
You just need the willingness to lead.
Meet Alex.
She's an analyst at a tech company
and individual
contributor
with no formal leadership title.
But she has an idea.
For three years, Alex has been thinking
about a new initiative
that could improve the way her team works.
She's passionate about it and believes
it could make a real difference.
But there's a challenge.
She's never led a project before
in her workplace.
Leadership usually comes with a title.
And since no one around her
has taken the lead with that one,
the idea of stepping up
feels intimidating.
Doubts creep in.
Who am I to lead this?
How do I even get started?
What if no one listens?
What Alex doesn't realize
is that leadership starts with a vision.
The fact that she sees a need
and has an idea to address it.
That's the first step.
Now think back to your answer earlier.
Do you consider yourself a leader?
Like Alex, you might already be leading
in ways you haven't recognized.
So what kind of leader do you want to be?
In this course,
you'll explore your core values.
Discover
what leadership means to you and decide
what kind of impact you want to make.
Truth is, many leaders
step up before they feel ready.
Maybe it's your time to step up to.